
In the [Overview][], I explain my thinking.  This is a fairly long article, but
contains a lot of useful background information if you want to understand how I
arrived at these conclusions. If you just want to be told what to do, you can
skip it and dive right in here. 

[Overview]: <overview.md>

## Philosophy

As you look at the many generals in Evony for mayors, you are looking for what
are called "debuff" generals.  These are generals that reduce one or more
attributes of the attacking general and/or attacking army.  While you can
"debuff" the enemy's ability to attack, the enemy's health (HP), or the enemy's
ability to defend against your counter-attack (defense), these last two amount
to the same thing in practice.  Both of them reduce the enemy's ability to
survive your counter-attack, while the first one reduces his/her ability to
attack you.

So which strategy do you prefer?  The best defense is a strong offense? You
will want to go all out building ranged and particularly sieged troops.  Or do
you depend on your own PvP march to do the real damage and you just want to
survive while that happens?  If so focus on ground and mounted troops. 

There are strong arguments each way, and both positions are presented better
in other places.  Alternately, take a hybrid approach and look for the few
names that appear on both lists.  These may not be the strongest mayors in one
or both categories, but that they show in the list at all means they are still
among the top choices available. 

At this time, I do not recommend the use of peace time mayors for either free
or light spenders.  I explain why [here][peace].

[peace]: <peace_time_subcity_mayors>

[debuff]: <../reference/glossary#debuff>

## Reducing the Enemy's Ability to Attack You

This is for people who depend on their PvP march and are just trying to survive
the enemy's attack in the mean time.  While you would not mind hurting the
enemy, you are focused on preventing him/her from hurting you. 

In the tabs below, see how radically the lists change as you look at different
levels of investment in your mayors.  I recommend Free Players use the 3 Purple
list and everyone else use the 3 Orange list. Further note, generals marked
with a 'Y' in the 'Availability' column are the only ones available without
getting lucky in paid events.

